PLEASE NOTE - Due to a computer glitch, there are no
"Continueds" at the page breaks on scenes that go from one
page to another.
BREAKING BAD
"No Mas"
Episode #301
Written by
Vince Gilligan
Directed by
Bryan Cranston
Production Draft
WHITE - 8/3/09
SONY PICTURES TELEVISION INC.
All Rights Reserved © 2009
No portion of this script may be performed, or reproduced by any
means, or quoted, or published in any medium without prior written
consent of SONY PICTURES TELEVISION INC. * 10202 West Washington
Boulevard * Culver City, CA 90232*
BREAKING BAD
"No Mas"
8/3/09
Cast List
WALT
SKYLER
JESSE
WALTER, JR.
HANK
MARIE
THE COUSINS
GUS
DONALD MARGOLIS
CARMEN
PAMELA ORBIC
BARRY
GROUP LEADER
SAD-FACED GIRL
WIDE-EYED BOY
FRIENDLY GUY
FIRST ANCHOR
SECOND ANCHOR
THIRD ANCHOR
FIRST REPORTER
SECOND REPORTER
MIDDLE-AGED WITNESS
HOLLY
OLD MEXICAN MAN (Non-Speaking)
BREAKING BAD
"No Mas"
8/3/09
Set List
Interiors:
WHITE HOUSE
LIVING ROOM
DINING ROOM
HIGH SCHOOL
CHEMISTRY CLASSROOM
GYMNASIUM
THE BEACHCOMBER
WALT'S STUDIO
LOS POLLOS HERMANOS
LAW OFFICE
ANTEROOM
LUXURY REHAB
THE ONION
SANTA MUERTE SHRINE
WALT'S AZTEK
TRUCK BED
Exteriors:
WHITE HOUSE
BACK YARD
DRIVEWAY
LUXURY REHAB
THE BEACHCOMBER APARTMENTS
LOS POLLOS HERMANOS
OFFICE BUILDING
MEXICAN DESERT
MEXICAN VILLAGE
EDGE OF TOWN
MEXICAN SHACK
GREAT OUTDOORS
BORDER DESERT
TEASER
1 BLUE SKY 1
Fills frame. A deep, polarizer blue with fluffy white clouds
(hopefully), it’s the kind of sky planes sometimes fall from.
We TILT DOWN from it to find...
EXT. MEXICAN DESERT - DAY
This isn’t a border town, but farther south. There’s nothing
in the way of pavement or sidewalks -- just two red dirt
roads that cross in the middle of nowhere, littered on both
sides by old adobe and haphazard shanties.
It’s too hot to do much of anything. A few scrawny chickens
hunt and peck. A few RESIDENTS brave the midday sun... but
we make out OTHERS in silhouette, sitting in the shade of
porches and such, minding their own business.
This town has a kind of Old West feel. It might put us in
mind of the opening to “The Wild Bunch.” All is quiet. No
activity of note. Not until...
... An OLD MEXICAN MAN comes crawling on his belly.
What a face. If Fellini were alive and directing spaghetti
westerns, this is a face he’d cast. With skin tanned to the
hue of a well-oiled catcher’s mitt and wrinkles deep enough
to hide M&Ms, this man is somewhere between seventy and three
hundred years old. Here he comes, making his way on knees
and elbows padded with a filthy swaddling of tied-on RAGS.
Why the hell is he crawling? Nobody’s behind him, holding a
gun to his head. He does it of his own volition. Dirty and
dusty, grimacing into the broiling sun, prostrating himself,
he moves slowly but deliberately. Left elbow left knee --
right elbow right knee -- he’s been at it for hours.
As for the townsfolk, they couldn’t care less. A bland-faced
MESTIZO WOMAN crosses the street, side-stepping him as if he
were a mud puddle. A beat-up truck casually steers around
him. The old man pays no attention to them, either. All the
while, his eyes never leave some unseen goal in the distance.
Heat haze shimmers around him. Right through the middle of
town this viejito crawls -- a truly weird sight.
It gets weirder. Now we notice a SECOND CRAWLING MAN. He’s
younger, this one, but just as determinedly masochistic. As
is a THIRD MAN... a FOURTH... and a crawling WOMAN or two.
All have knees and elbows makeshift-padded for long-distance
prostration. And all, we notice, are headed in one
direction. They take slightly different tracks, perhaps.
Some crawl a bit faster, others slower. But they’re all
making for the same destination.
When a few additional CRAWLERS appear from one perpendicular
alley or another, their paths soon converge with the others.
For these pilgrims, all roads lead to Rome.
Soon, another out-of-place sight -- but this one actually
elicits glances from the townsfolk. Cruising into view,
parking in the center of everything is a shiny new MERCEDES
COUPE. Probably you could trade the entire town for this car
and still be a couple of grand shy.
In the Mercedes sit two youngish men. Wearing narrow-lapeled
Canali suits, their eyes hidden behind designer sunglasses,
they take their styling cues from GQ Magazine, circa 1988.
We’ll call these two THE COUSINS -- but picture them more as
brothers, or maybe even identical twins. They are ice-cold
bad-assedness personified. “Trouble” with a capital T, which
rhymes with C, which stands for “Cartel.”
They watch impassively as pilgrims crawl left and right
around their car. These Cousins -- are they here to pull off
a drug deal? Shake somebody down? Maybe commit a murder?
Nope. They climb out of their Mercedes. With a silent
glance to one another... they get down on knees and elbows
and CRAWL. They don’t give a moment’s worry to their
expensive Italian suits.
As we TRACK LOW with The Cousins, we note their distinctive,
hand-tooled COWBOY BOOTS. We watch as their SILVER TOE-CAPS
press into the dried mud, leaving IMPRINTS.
MACRO-CLOSE on one of these imprints -- it’s a perfect little
HUMAN SKULL. Four tracks of skulls, one for each boot,
stretch into the distance (PRODUCTION NOTE: we may need to
rent a specialty lens for this particular shot).
2 EXT. MEXICAN VILLAGE - EDGE OF TOWN - DAY 2
Ten or fifteen pilgrims BELLY-CRAWL. The Cousins are among
them. Now, finally, we see where everyone is headed.
A little SHRINE sits on the edge of town. It’s just a squat
adobe building, nothing fancy -- but it’s painted in bright
colors which really make it pop. One-third house of worship,
two-thirds tourist trap, it’s garish as hell.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 2.
3 INT. SANTA MUERTE SHRINE - DAY 3
At the doorless threshold, white-hot light blasts in from
outside... and yet the interior quickly falls off into GLOOM.
It’s almost as if the sun is afraid to come any further.
Our pilgrims crawl in, joining others who are already here.
The Cousins arrive, rising to their knees and removing their
sunglasses. It’s tight inside -- lots of sweaty, needy
worshippers and scores and scores of flickering CANDLES,
green, yellow and gold.
Everybody faces a sort of altar-wall at the front. Standing
before them, greeting all with outstretched arms, is a
skeleton in a lace dress and a veil. This is SANTA MUERTE,
and these people have come a long, hard way to pray to her
(Although we’re taking some liberties, this is a real cult
down in Mexico, with believers numbering in the millions.
Check it out on Google or YouTube).
Stacked high at the Saint’s feet are hundreds of offerings:
tobacco, tequila and rum, fruit and flowers, coins, food.
The altar-wall is thickly papered with yellowing letters,
plus photographs old and new. These represent requests --
leave an offering, light a candle and say a prayer, then hope
your request gets answered. All around, folks murmur in
Spanish, talking to their beloved La Nina Blanca.
Taking their turn at the wall, the two Cousins have a request
of their own. One pulls a fat candle from the pocket of his
jacket, lights it and sets it at the Saint’s feet. This
candle stands out from all others, as it is BLACK.
The other Cousin produces a wrinkled sheet of paper. He
folds it open and carefully tacks it to the altar-wall. Both
men settle back, staring intently at it.
CLOSE ON the sheet. It’s a drawing of a man’s face. Kind of
like a police sketch. Maybe it’s a bit crude and homemade...
but we instantly recognize this bald, average man. He has a
mustache, dark glasses and a black, narrow-brimmed hat.
It’s HEISENBERG, the drug-dealing alter-ego of WALTER WHITE.
Our two scary Cousins glare at Heisenberg. Off them,
wrathful and unblinking, their lips moving in silent
prayer... and us thinking ”Oh shit. THIS can’t be good...”
... We begin SEASON THREE.
END TEASER
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 3.
ACT ONE
4 FUZZY, COLORED LIGHTS 4
Fill frame. We are MACRO-CLOSE on a TV SCREEN. We’re so
close, in fact, that its tiny PIXELS stand out INDIVIDUALLY.
Many colors sweep through, making an unseen larger image.
ANNOUNCER’S VOICE
We interrupt our scheduled
programming to bring you breaking
news.
FIRST ANCHOR
Good afternoon. In the last
several minutes, KABQ has received
dozens of reports of what appears
to be a crashed aircraft --
possibly two aircraft -- on
Albuquerque’s east side. As of yet
details are scarce, but callers
describe witnessing an explosion
overhead, followed by falling
debris. Visible now toward the
Sandias are two large columns of
smoke, which seem to indicate...
Throughout this and the FOLLOWING, we slowly PULL OUT from
the television screen. We begin to make out faces, details.
What follows is a MONTAGE of NEWS on DIFFERENT STATIONS.
It’s a constant flow of different REPORTERS and ANCHORPEOPLE,
all of them CROSS-FADING IN and OUT. The conceit is that
we’re watching ONE WEEK’S WORTH of coverage of this big,
growing story -- this airline disaster which ended ep. 213.
Hopefully we can pull this off with seven ON-CAMERA talkers,
rounded out with another few unseen LOOP GROUPERS.
IMPORTANT! Our on-camera folks -- when they REPEAT -- should
have WARDROBE CHANGES to help sell a passage of time.
FIRST REPORTER
... Crash investigators with the
National Transportation Safety
Board are expected on-site as early
as this evening. However,
officials warn that with a debris
field of this magnitude, the
investigation and clean-up may
stretch well into the week.
Meanwhile, Wayfarer Airlines has
issued the following statement...
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 4.
SECOND ANCHOR
... Boeing 737 was being re-routed,
or “vectored” through the airspace,
which is standard procedure
according to a spokesman for the
FAA. The eight-seat King Air 350
was a charter flight operating out
of Saint George, Utah, bound for...
SECOND REPORTER
... Fatalities appear to be limited
to passengers and crew. However,
damage to property on the ground is
widespread -- and in the case of
the Vista Verde Apartment complex,
which caught fire after being...
MIDDLE-AGED WITNESS
... It sounded like hail. Like
heavy hailstones, just bump-bumpbump, all over the neighborhood.
Crashing down, just little...
pieces of things. God, I-I...
All through this, we round out our talking heads with some
exceedingly well-chosen STOCK FOOTAGE.
Hopefully, we see firefighters and cops coming and going...
black smoke rising... investigators working a crash site...
tense and weeping crowds... news helicopter footage, etc.
It would also be nice to see our own familiar, moon-suited
NTSB TECHNICIANS at work. However, just know that we’re not
going to repeat any footage of them we shot in season two.
Furthermore, any new aftermath stuff we do shoot should not
be shot in Walt’s neighborhood. The idea here is that debris
rained all over Albuquerque. This was a city-wide disaster,
and other neighborhoods fared far worse than Walt’s.
THIRD ANCHOR
(in SPANISH, no subtitles)
... We have confirmation now on one
hundred sixty-seven deaths...
FIRST ANCHOR
... Final death toll stands at one
hundred sixty-seven, making
Wayfarer Five-One-Five the worst
air disaster in the United States
since June of...
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 5.
FIRST REPORTER
... One hundred and sixty-seven.
This mid-air collision has left
many wondering how such an accident
could take place in a system with
so many safeguards. Yesterday’s
recovery of the 737’s flight
recorder, or so-called “black box,”
will hopefully shed light -- though
sources close to the investigation
hint that human error on the ground
may have played a factor.
SECOND REPORTER
... Gene, the allegations just keep
coming that the collision which
brought down Flight Five-One-Five
was caused by improper air traffic
control. It’s a story which seems
to be taking on a life of its own,
yet so far federal...
SECOND ANCHOR
... Bombshell confirmation out of
Oklahoma City today as the FAA
officially confirmed it was indeed
a lone air traffic controller’s
fateful mistake which brought about
the crash of Wayfarer Five-OneFive. Let’s go now to...
THIRD ANCHOR
(in Spanish, no subtitles)
... Caused by an air traffic
controller based right here in
Albuquerque. Sources report the
man’s name as Donald Margolis...
Now, flashing onto screen comes an old employee photo some
enterprising journalist dug up. It’s of DONALD, Jane’s dad.
FIRST REPORTER
... Donald Margolis, a nineteen
year veteran of the FAA’s Air Route
Traffic Control Center in
Albuquerque. With a previously
unblemished record which dates...
FIRST ANCHOR
... Source would only confirm
Margolis recently returned to work
after a five-week absence which was
due to, quote, “a personal loss”...
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 6.
Cut to bedlam. A scrum of REPORTERS moves along a hallway
(or down a sidewalk -- indoors or out doesn’t really matter).
What’s important is they’re chasing DONALD and his ATTORNEYS.
We watch this from the jogging POV of a NEWS CAMERA.
This is obviously footage we need to generate. Dressed in a
suit, poor Donald is the proverbial deer in headlights as he
gets showered with questions and has to push his way through.
We feel so sorry for him. He looks lost and uncomprehending.
SECOND REPORTER
... Victims’ families are loudly
demanding answers. While it’s now
known that Margolis had recently
lost a daughter to a drug overdose,
there’s little to indicate...
A photo of JANE, one taken in happier times, is broadcast.
SECOND ANCHOR
... Jane Margolis, aged twenty-six,
apparently had a long history of
substance abuse. Friends of the
family say the death of his only
child hit Margolis particularly
hard. Coming as it did little more
than a month before, many question
the timing of his return to work...
5 INT. WHITE HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - MORNING - CONTINUOUS 5
Now, we finally begin to PULL BACK outside of this TV screen
until we reveal that the television broadcasting all this
news is the one in Walt’s very own living room.
Before the TV sits the armchair. Although it’s currently
empty, up till recently someone has taken a long-term
RESIDENCE in it.
We know this because of the detritus in and around it: a
weary old blanket, a pillow, a half-eaten sandwich, eyedrops,
a Kleenex box, soda cans, a coffee cup, a week’s worth of
scattered newspapers (hopefully, at least one of them has a
FULL-PAGE COVER about the airline disaster).
Yes, somebody clearly spent the last entire, hellish WEEK in
front of this TV. But who is that someone? Right now, a
WIDE view of the house shows it DESERTED.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 7.
6 EXT. WHITE HOUSE - BACKYARD - MORNING - CONTINUOUS 6
Out here on the patio we continue to hear that TV NEWS
playing faintly in the house. Without seeing inside through
the curtains (as we obviously have a set/location mismatch),
we PAN off the open sliding glass door to find...
... WALTER WHITE seated by his swimming pool.
It’s been a week since the end of 213. The NTSB guys have
long since come and gone. All is cleaned up except for Walt.
Unshaven, unshowered, he sits alone in his bathrobe, engaged
in an activity viewers may remember from our Pilot episode.
Walt lights MATCHES. He lets them burn, then tosses them in
the pool. Several books’ worth are in there already --
little black squiggles gently bobbing on the surface.
Walt is barely aware of what he’s doing. He looks like shit
and feels even worse. Self-loathing, bereft, haunted, he
hasn’t slept in days.
CLOSE -- Walt is down to his very LAST MATCH. His fingers
pause, hesitating to tear it loose. Instead, emotion now
wells up inside him... as does an IMPULSE.
Up he lurches from his chair, matchbook in hand. CUT TO:
7 EXT. WHITE HOUSE - BACKYARD - MINUTES LATER 7
BLACKNESS. CLANG! Suddenly we can see as Walt removes the
lid. We realize we’re INSIDE his CHARCOAL GRILL, looking
straight up at Walt and the blue sky above. He yanks out the
wire cook-top and tosses it, making room.
What is Walt dumping on us? Is this... wait... MONEY?
NEW ANGLE -- it is indeed. Emptying his familiar black
duffel into the Weber, Walt is a man with a fever. Guilt and
self-directed anger have whipped him to a frenzy. Wrapped
stacks of bills pile Matterhorn-high. Some tumble to the
ground. Walt grabs the strays, piling on every last dollar
of his METH EARNINGS.
Splurp-splurp-splurp goes the lighter fluid, soaking all.
There’s a wild, “fuck it!” gleam in Walt’s eyes as he tears
loose the last match and strikes it to life.
He’s not really gonna do this, is he? Oh, hell yeah he is.
WHOOOOOOMPH! Big orange flames. Walt stands by, watching
with grim satisfaction as the top bills curl and blacken.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 8.
Funny how short-lived satisfaction can be. It quickly dawns
on Walt -- what the FUCK am I DOING?! Eyes wide, he GRABS up
the grill -- AAH! Hot, HOT!! -- stumbling with it toward the
pool. A few wads of burning cash spill onto the pavement.
KER-BLOOOSH! Into the pool goes the grill and money in a fat
sizzle of STEAM. Meantime, the sleeve of Walt’s bathrobe has
caught FIRE. He spins and flails it through the air, but it
isn’t going out -- so into the water he BELLY-FLOPS.
(Obviously, the particulars of this fire gag all depend on
what we can actually pull off safely. To be determined.)
Walt pops back to the surface, looking like a drowned rat.
He stands chest-high, frantically splashing water at the last
few lumps of cash still BURNING poolside. Off our hero...
8 EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY 8
To establish. We’re amongst the tall buildings downtown,
though this particular one is NEW to us (let’s also grab as
many angles of our DEA BUILDING as we can while we’re here).
9 INT. LAW OFFICE - ANTEROOM - DAY 9
A quiet, tasteful lobby. Currently the only client waiting,
SKYLER sits here beside baby HOLLY, asleep in her carrier.
Skyler stares into space. This has been one hell of a week,
one hell of a month. There’s a lot on her mind right now --
all of it complicated and painful.
Of note: she wears a turquoise RIBBON pinned to her blouse.
We CREEP IN on Skyler, utterly lost in thought. Until...
RECEPTIONIST’S VOICE
Ms. White? She’s ready for you.
(Let’s keep this receptionist completely offscreen so we can
simply use a LOOP GROUP VOICE. Yay austerity!) Off Skyler,
forcing a smile and rising to her feet, we CUT TO:
10 INT. LAW OFFICE - DAY 10
PAMELA ORBIC, attorney at law, smiles down at baby Holly,
playing with her tiny hand.
PAMELA
You are one little cutie! Yes, you
are. What, nine, ten weeks..?
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 9.
SKYLER
(smiling)
Close. Two months to the day.
PAMELA
God, I love ‘em at that age. You
just wanna eat ‘em up.
Although Pamela, like Saul Goodman, is smart and good at her
job, that’s where all similarities end. This woman is quiet,
caring and professional -- the opposite of tacky, flashy and
full of shit. Like Skyler, she wears a turquoise RIBBON.
The woman takes her seat. She and Skyler are arranged around
a coffee table instead of across a desk from one another --
it’s a setup that’s meant to relax with its informality.
PAMELA
Alright. I usually open with “So
sorry you’re here...”
(off Sky’s sad smile)
Where would you like to begin?
Skyler sighs and launches into it, a bit nervous.
SKYLER
I really just need this quick and
easy. As quick as, you know,
something like this can be.
PAMELA
Okay. Is that mutual? Does your
husband go along with that?
(off Sky’s hesitation)
Does he know?
SKYLER
I mean, he certainly knows we’re
separated. So...
PAMELA
Has he moved out?
SKYLER
We’re in the process of moving him
out. Yeah. Today, hopefully. In
the meantime, my son and daughter
and I are staying with my sister.
PAMELA
Wait. So you’ve moved out?
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 10.
SKYLER
Well, just temporarily. Only until
he could get his things together.
That was supposed to be last week,
but then came the crash, and...
PAMELA
Oh god, you weren’t one of the --
SKYLER
(nodding)
-- Right beneath the flight path.
We had debris land right in our
yard, all over our neighborhood...
PAMELA
Mm. Terrible.
SKYLER
Apparently, you know, even... parts
of bodies..? I mean, I couldn’t
bring myself to go over there.
PAMELA
Jesus. So awful.
SKYLER
God, I know. Anyway, I certainly
wasn’t ready to move us back.
But... it’s time. And we’re
driving my sister and her husband
up a wall, I’m sure.
PAMELA
Well, you definitely want to
maintain residency in your actual
home. It just puts you in a better
position in regards to custody.
Two children, you said?
SKYLER
Yeah. Holly here, and a son in
high school -- Walter, Junior.
(firm now)
They need to stay with me.
PAMELA
Okay.
(writes it down)
How long have you been married?
SKYLER
Sixteen years.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 11.
PAMELA
And it’s not an apartment, it’s a
house that you live in?
(off Skyler’s nod)
Do you own outright, or is there a
mortgage, or do you --
SKYLER
-- Definitely a mortgage. We’ve
got maybe fifteen years on it.
PAMELA
What about other debts or assets?
Do you feel you have a good
understanding of you and your
husband’s financial situation?
Skyler hesitates. It’s sure hard to answer “yes” given the
mysterious hundred grand Walt used to pay his medical bills
(see ep. 213). Pamela notes Sky’s half-hearted shrug/nod.
PAMELA
Is your husband employed?
SKYLER
Yes. He’s a high school teacher.
Chemistry teacher.
PAMELA
Did you pay for any of his
schooling? For instance, did you
help put him through, maybe, a
master’s program or...
SKYLER
I pretty much supported us while he
did some post-doctoral work. But
really, here’s the thing: I am not
looking for any kind of loopholes,
or, I dunno --
PAMELA
-- No, no loopholes. I just intend
that every one of my clients get a
full and honest accounting of what
it is they owe, and what it is they
own. To that end, I say let’s
leave no stone unturned.
(supportive smile)
You’d be amazed what I’ve seen
partners hide from one another.
Though she tries to conceal it, Skyler’s dismay is evident.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 12.
SKYLER
The financial end of things is
something he and I can deal with.
We’ll split everything fifty-fifty
and just be done with it. So...
(thin smile)
Yeah. Quick and easy’s all I need.
Ohhh-kay. This attorney knows there’s some very big detail
that Skyler is choosing to leave out. The woman studies her
for a moment -- then shoots gently, but straight.
PAMELA
Who’re we looking to protect here --
you or your husband?
Nervous Skyler just stares at her, not answering. Finally:
PAMELA
Well. Think about that. And if
you do choose to retain me, just
know there’s certain information
I’ll need if I’m going to represent
you properly. Okay?
Skyler considers... then rises to her feet.
SKYLER
Okay. I will think about that.
Off the two of them shaking hands -- friendly, but strained:
11 EXT. WHITE HOUSE - DAY 11
All’s quiet. As before, no debris or NTSB, all of which are
long-since cleaned up, packed up and gone. However, as we
focus on Walt’s house, seen from here across the street...
... We realize we’re looking at it past a WHITE STYROFOAM
CROSS and an arrangement of wilting FLOWERS. This is a tacky
but heartfelt REMEMBRANCE that sits in the front of a
neighbor’s yard. Perhaps placed where a body part was found?
Framing past this CROSS in f.g., we see a BLACK TRUCK motor
into view and park in the driveway beside Walt’s Aztek.
CLOSER ANGLE -- HANK climbs out of his truck. This is his
black Jeep Commander, by the way. It’s the one that got shot
up by Tuco back in ep. 202, and this is the first we’re
seeing of it since it’s been repaired. No bullet holes.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 13.
It’s in way better shape than Walt’s Aztek, by the way.
Though we don’t make a deal of it, the Aztek still has the
BROKEN WINDSHIELD we noticed at the end of last season.
Hank stands by his truck a moment. He does not wanna be here
right now. Ah shit... let’s go get this over with.
12 EXT. WHITE HOUSE - BACKYARD - DAY - CONTINUOUS 12
One last black shard of torched CASH floats in the pristine
blue of the pool. A net dips into frame and scoops it up.
Walt has cleaned up everything. Surprisingly, that even
includes himself. He’s wearing clothes now. He’s showered
and shaved. There’s no sign of anything amiss, and no sign
of the money (and by the way, in the previous scene it should
play that only a couple thousand bucks went up in flames).
Walt glances around, nods to himself. He’s still miserable
as hell, but at least all is in order. From inside the
house, we hear the faint, insistent ringing of the DOORBELL.
Walt ignores it. Instead, he thinks to check the pool’s
skimmer basket. He kneels down, favoring his side (remember,
he had lung surgery six weeks ago) and pulls the lid.
There are a few blackened specks of burnt bills... but what
the heck is that WHITE THING rattling around in the flow at
the bottom of the basket? Walt reaches, pulls it out.
Oh, god. It dawns on Walt what this is. Us, too. It’s the
plastic EYEBALL from the pink teddy bear. Missed by the NTSB
cleanup crew, it’s a macabre reminder of the airliner crash.
HANK (O.S.)
Walt? --
Here comes Hank into view from around the side of the house.
Instinctively, Walt tucks the plastic eye in his pocket.
HANK
Hey, Buddy.
Walt rises, nods to his brother-in-law. Grim, uncomfortable
silence. Again, Hank really does not want to be doing this.
In his mind, this is coming between a man and his castle.
HANK
Listen, I, uh...
(he shrugs; what to say?)
... It’s time.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 14.
Off Walt, staring at him... then lowering his head in assent:
13 EXT. WHITE HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY 13
An hour later. The rear hatch of Hank’s Commander stands
open. Inside, the back is packed with Walt’s sad belongings:
clothes, shoes, books and papers piled high in various boxes.
Parked next to it, Walt’s own Aztek also has its hatch open
and is filling up with stuff. Hank and Walt load both
vehicles from a communal pile they’ve made atop the driveway.
Walt is listless and lagging. Hank moves faster, as he just
wants to get outta here. He talks fast, too (he wears a
turquoise REMEMBRANCE RIBBON, by the way).
HANK
... THE single SHITTIEST week
since 9/11 -- hands-down. This is
it! We’re living it! I mean, and
I say this with some authority,
‘cause we definitely had some
shitty weeks the last six months.
But this right here? Call
Guinness, man. Call... freakin’...
(runs out of words)
Jesus, am I talking too much? I
am. But look. The situation
between? -- and I am not asking, by
the way. Not my business, I do NOT
wanna get in the middle of you two.
But this current situation? I say
beat a little tactical retreat...
regroup... you know? Absence makes
the...
(gives up; helpless shrug)
Ah. I’m just pulling for you, man.
Walt says nothing. Is he even listening? There’s one last
item on the driveway left to load -- that infamous, big BLACK
DUFFEL BAG (actually, it’d be nice if some second-to-last
item hid the duffel from our sight until now).
Walt reaches down to pick it up, but Hank intervenes.
HANK
Whoa, no heavy lifting. I got it.
Hank hoists the duffel -- wow.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 15.
HANK
Jesus, whaddya got in this thing?
Cinderblocks?
Walt considers. Fuck it.
WALT
Half a million in cash.
Hank laughs, delighted Walt hasn’t lost his sense of humor.
HANK
That’s the spirit! --
Oof! He hoists the bag into the back of his Jeep, then slams
the hatch. He heads for the driver’s seat.
HANK
Alright. See you over there.
Walt manages a nod, watches as Hank climbs into his truck,
cranks it and motors off. Walt listlessly closes the back of
his own vehicle.
He pauses to gaze at his home sweet home. He stares up at it
like a man headed off to the gallows. Wistful and burdened
with regret, Walt would give anything right now for a redo --
for a chance to change the past.
But that’s not possible, and he knows it. Walt heads for his
Aztek, climbs in and starts it up. Off him, driving out of
frame and leaving his home behind him...
END ACT ONE
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 16.
ACT TWO
14 EXT. LUXURY REHAB - MORNING 14
CLOSE ON a flat of FLOWERS. Brilliant yellow and blue, they
stand out against the rust-red soil as HANDS plant them.
We reveal these hands belong to... JESSE. Kneeling low, he
labors intently, lost in his work. He’d make a pretty good
gardener if he put his mind to it.
Jesse looks better -- physically -- than when we last saw
him. He’s off the junk and his color has improved. No dark
circles under his eyes. His hair is neat and noticeably
SHORTER (keep in mind that though it’s been a week since 213
ended, it’s been six weeks since we laid eyes on Jesse).
We can’t say he looks happy, however. Not miserable, either.
He is simply... existing. Call it “autopilot.”
WIDE on Jesse, tiny in frame as he and other PATIENTS go
about their pleasant rehab chores. The terra cotta ONION
BUILDING is behind them. It’d be nice if we could get this
during a striking sunrise or sunset. Over it, PRELAP:
GROUP LEADER (V.O.)
Who’s here for self-improvement?
15 INT. LUXURY REHAB - THE ONION - MORNING 15
Later. Focus on Jesse, who is one patient in a circle of
ten. All these folks wear somewhat similiar GREEN clothes.
The effect should play like an attempt at esprit de corps.
GROUP LEADER
C’mon, gimme a show of hands. Who
among you is here hoping they can
actively improve who they are?
Sure. Sounds good. Patients tentatively raise their hands
until everyone does it. Jesse, a million miles away, catches
on a beat behind the others and raises his hand, too.
GROUP LEADER
Yeah..? See, that’s your first
mistake. You should be here to
learn self-acceptance.
Up till now, it’s like Jesse wasn’t even here. But that last
line breaks through, just a little.
It’s subtle, but... off Jesse, starting to pay attention:
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 17.
16 EXT. WHITE HOUSE - MORNING 16
We’re low in the street, looking up at the house. The Aztek
is gone. A fragment of yellow POLICE LINE TAPE -- a reminder
of the air disaster -- lazily skitters through frame in f.g.
(PRODUCTION NOTE: split-diopter shot?)
17 INT. WHITE HOUSE - DINING ROOM - MORNING 17
Skyler and WALTER, JR. eat breakfast. There’s no place
setting at Walt’s empty chair -- a glaring absence.
Nearby where mom can keep an eye on her, baby HOLLY lies in
her carrier or somesuch, fidgeting happily. Skyler ventures
the occasional glance at her teenaged son -- who will NOT
fucking look at her throughout this entire scene.
Talk about the cold shoulder. All Walter, Jr. knows is that
his mom kicked his dad out of the house and won’t say why.
Stony, stony silence. Skyler tries for chipper.
SKYLER
Honey, want another waffle..?
(a beat)
Still got the iron out. I could
cut up some bananas...
Jesus, homemade waffles, even. Unfortunately, this does
nothing to thaw Walter, Jr. Now, their kitchen phone RINGS.
SKYLER’S VOICE
Hi, you’ve reached Walt, Skyler,
Flynn and Holly! Please leave us a
message.
WALT’S VOICE
Uh. Hey. Hello, everybody! Good
morning! I was just... checking
in. Thought I’d uh, pass along the
current contact information. I
mean, certainly you can always
reach me on the cell, I’ve always
got that on, but in terms of a
mailing address... I am here at
“The Beachcomber,” and you know
what? It’s actually very nice!
Very pleasant. Not as high-end as
the Oakwood, but you know, not so
corporate. So, uh. Gee, yeah.
That address. That address is...
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 18.
Throughout this, Skyler remains poker-faced for the sake of
her son -- no obvious displays of displeasure. Junior rises
to his feet, gathers his crutches and heads for the phone.
SKYLER
Would you please just --
She changes her mind about stopping him. It doesn’t matter
anyhow. Ignoring his mom as studiously as she ignores her
husband’s message, the teenager picks up the receiver.
WALTER, JR.
Hey Dad, it’s me.
(listens a beat)
No, I’m not okay. I don’t know
what the hell is going on! Nobody
tells me jack-shit around here!
SKYLER
Flynn...
Walt, Jr. still won’t look at her. Strictly into the phone:
WALTER, JR.
Whatever. I don’t even care
anymore. Can you just give me a
ride to school?
SKYLER
I’ll take you to school.
WALTER, JR.
(into phone)
Yeah. No, I’m ready now.
SKYLER
Flynn, I’m taking you to school.
WALTER, JR.
(into phone)
Alright, I’m here. See you soon.
Bye.
He hangs up. Having utterly blown off his mom, Junior clunks
into the living room and sits waiting, glowering at the front
door. You can practically see the black storm cloud of
petulance hovering over his head.
Skyler remains seated at the dining table, struggling to stay
patient. Off her, frustrated and grieving and not allowed by
circumstance to even explain herself to her son...
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 19.
18 INT. THE BEACHCOMBER - WALT’S STUDIO - MORNING 18
CLOSE ON SANDWICH FIXINGS. Peanut butter gets spread on one
slice of bread... strawberry jelly gets spread on the other.
Walt stands here in the tiny kitchenette, making his lunch.
He’s dressed for work. His cell phone lies nearby.
Jesus. Is Walt making a sandwich, or is he assembling a
communications satellite? He works at this thing like it’s
some challenge of the utmost importance to humanity.
Peanut butter and jelly go on just so, in equal proportions.
The two slices are carefully mated. Off come the crusts,
sliced with a sharp knife. Only now, there’s trouble -- one
side of the sandwich is a little jagged. Walt frowns down at
it, fiddling with the loose edge. He nervously strokes at
his mustache -- what to do? What to do?
Wow. OCD, anyone? As Walt stands here, we cut WIDE behind
him, taking in this dreary little furnished apartment. This
is the kind of place middle-aged bachelors go to die.
BZZZZZZZZZ -- we hear the faint vibration of a CELL PHONE.
Walt turns our way, comes looking for it. He finds it in the
bottom of a suitcase -- it’s his second, DRUG PHONE, still
sealed in its ZipLock baggie from when he had it hidden in
the toilet tank at home.
BLEEP! The sound of a TEXT MESSAGE getting left. Walt peers
at the phone in his hand. His eyes narrow.
Walt’s POV: CLOSE ON the cell phone’s tiny screen. One word
appears -- “POLLOS.”
Uh-oh. It’s GUS, Walt’s high-volume meth buyer at Los Pollos
Hermanos. It’s okay if you don’t remember, as we’ll spell it
out later. In the meantime, just know that getting this call
for a meeting doesn’t sit well with Walt. He’s in no mood to
think about the life of crime which got him here.
Walt tosses the bagged phone back in its suitcase and returns
to worrying over his sandwich.
19 INT. HIGH SCHOOL - CHEMISTRY CLASSROOM - MORNING 19
The door opens immediately before us, revealing a waiting
class of CHEMISTRY STUDENTS. We FOLLOW HANDHELD, Michael
Mann-style, just over Walt’s shoulder as he crosses the room
to his desk at the front. He rounds to face everybody.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 20.
WALT
Well. Good morning. I apologize
for running a bit late, I uh...
Walt trails off as kids start CLAPPING for him. It begins
with one or two teacher’s pets, but quickly spreads via peer
pressure to the ENTIRE CLASS. Kids are applauding Walt’s
return to work after lung surgery.
We finally show Walt’s face... and the surprise it contains.
WALT
Uh. T-Thank you, I...
(forces a smile)
Thank you. It’s good to be back.
He gives a little “settle down” motion -- he appreciates the
sentiment, but as he’s not feeling much like a hero these
days, it makes him uncomfortable. He simply wants to get
back to work so that he can bury himself in it.
WALT
Alright, so where’d you leave off
with your substitute? Esters? Did
you get as far as esters..?
As he checks some paperwork, the building’s P.A. SYSTEM
crackles to life overhead. It’s assistant principal CARMEN.
CARMEN’S VOICE
May I have your attention, please?
Good morning, everybody. As all of
you know... very well... last week,
our city suffered a terrible
tragedy. One that none of us will
probably ever forget. And that is
why, this morning, we are going to
take a little time out of our
schedule, and we are going to come
together as a family. Just to
check how everyone is doing.
Walt glances up through his eyebrows -- say what?
CARMEN’S VOICE
So, teachers, please accompany your
students to the gym -- in a quiet,
orderly fashion, please. And...
let’s rap.
Students glance to one another, then quietly rise to their
feet and gather their belongings. Off Walt, dreading this:
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 21.
20 INT. HIGH SCHOOL - GYMNASIUM - MORNING - LATER 20
CLOSE ON a familiar face -- BARRY, the student from ep. 207.
The one to whom Walt said “Don’t bullshit a bullshitter.”
Here he is, sitting cross-legged on the gym floor, speaking
into a RADIO MIKE. And yes, he’s at it again.
BARRY
... I just find it, you know,
really, really hard to...
concentrate. In the aftermath.
Because of all the horrors, you
know, we... perceived. They really
get inside your brain, and uh...
(sad shrug)
In college, they have this thing
where if your roommate kills
himself -- like, if you come home
and find him hanging in the closet
or whatever? It’s basically an
automatic A. For you. And I just
think that that level of compassion
is... I just think it’s something
to think about. So...
Throughout this beautiful plea for understanding, we PULL
BACK from Barry to include the STUDENTS and FACULTY around
him. This gym is packed to the rafters. Kids fill the
bleachers, and the rest sit here on the floor like Barry.
Faculty members mostly stand (save for a few “hip” teachers,
who sit on the floor with their kids). Lots of those present
wear turquoise REMEMBRANCE RIBBONS. CARMEN does. You can
bet Barry’s got one, too.
Walt does not. He stands near Carmen, who moderates this
affair. Walt’s arms are folded as if he’s hugging himself --
as if he’s trying to squash the discomfort he feels around
“sharing.”
He’s in the minority. This faculty and these kids (aside
from Barry) take this thing seriously. These students listen
intently and respectfully. And why not? The air disaster
truly has brought all of them together emotionally.
Carmen gets her microphone back from Barry. Moving on...
CARMEN
Okay. Thank you, Barry. Who wants
to go next? No judgements, guys.
Just say anything and everything
that’s on your mind.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 22.
A few hands go up. Carmen smiles supportively as she hands
her mike to the nearest -- a SAD-FACED GIRL.
CARMEN
Here you go, Honey.
SAD-FACED GIRL
(into microphone)
I-I... I just keep asking myself,
“Why did this happen?” I mean...
if there’s a God and all, why does
He allow all those innocent people
to die for no reason?
Seated on the lower bleachers, WALTER, JR. pipes up angrily.
WALTER, JR.
Who said anything about God? It
was some stupid air traffic
controller! --
SHOUTS of agreement go up -- righteous anger directed at
Donald Margolis. “Sue him!” “Lock his ass up!” Stuff like
that. CLOSE ON Walt, whose silent discomfort increases.
WALTER, JR.
Yeah, put him in jail! What’s God
gotta do with it? --
CARMEN
L-Let’s, let’s keep things secular,
if we could. Stick with feelings.
SAD-FACED GIRL
Whatever. Anyhow, I haven’t really
been sleeping much. Does anybody
else have that..?
(murmurs of agreement)
I-I just keep hearing that... that
sound. That boom. I was close
enough to hear it, like five or six
blocks away. It just plays over
and over in my head, like it won’t
ever stop.
Her girlfriend beside her gives her a big, supportive hug.
Throughout this crowd, sniffles and downcast faces. A few
girls shed tears. A few boys look like they want to.
Walt, too, is affected -- but in a somewhat different way.
Unbeknownst to everyone here, there’s a guilt component to
Walt’s suffering. And if he were to shoulder it completely,
it would probably kill him outright.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 23.
Therefore, he’s got to fight it off. He’s gotta breathe deep
and go to his own private Idaho... and count the minutes
until this goddamned, emo-porn assembly is over.
Carmen hands her microphone to a WIDE-EYED BOY.
WIDE-EYED BOY
Um. My neighbor? He heard the
crash and he came outside, and he
found, like, this seat? Like, this
airline seat? Like you have on a
airliner? And like, it was sitting
perfectly upright in his front
yard, right next to his Sea-Doo?
‘Cause he’s got, like, a Sea-Doo.
And this seat had a pair of legs
still buckled into it.
(ominous nod)
Human legs.
That tears it. Big, ragged SIGH from Walt.
WALT
Jesus H. Christ.
Shortly, Walt comes to realize people are looking his way.
Oh crap -- did I say that out loud?
Sweet Carmen gives him a supportive little smile -- you okay?
Covering nicely, Walt nods, manages a weak smile in return.
WALT
Just. Moved.
CARMEN
(into her mike)
Maybe we should hear from the
faculty as well. Certainly this
tragedy affected not only our
students. Mr. White, would you
like to say something..?
(before he can beg off)
And welcome back, by the way.
We’re so glad to have you back.
She motions to everyone, and now -- oh, fuck -- yet again,
people are APPLAUDING Walt! Carmen hands him the microphone.
Walt would rather play handball with his testicles, but no
such luck. There’s no escape. He’s committed. And so...
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 24.
WALT
Well. I guess I just wanna say...
(shrug)
... Look on the bright side.
“The bright side?” People frown, glance at one another.
Silence. Walt clears his throat and goes for it.
WALT
Yeah. First of all, nobody on the
ground was killed. An incident
like this, over a populated urban
center? That right there, that’s
some sort of minor miracle. So...
(ooh, I got another one!)
Plus, neither plane was full.
What, the 737 was something like, I
believe, two-thirds full? Yeah?
Maybe three-quarters? At any rate,
what you’re left with casualty-wise
is the fiftieth-worst air disaster.
Tied for fiftieth, actually. There
were actually fifty-three crashes
through history that are just as
bad or worse.
(come on, people!)
Tenerife. Anybody ever hear of
Tenerife, in the Canary Islands?
In 1977, two fully loaded 747s
crashed into each other on
Tenerife. You know how big a 747
is? Way bigger than a 737 --
and we’re talking two of them!
Mind-boggling, really. Almost six
hundred people died. Any of you
ever even heard of that? I doubt
it! Because you know why? People
move on. They move on.
(nodding)
And we will, too. We’ll move on.
We will get past this. Because
that’s what human beings do! We
survive, and-and we survive and we
overcome. So. Yeah.
Deep, hopeful breath -- gee, that went pretty well!
The way these eight hundred kids stare at him gets Walt
realizing... too soon? Students are confused. Weirded out.
Walter, Jr. slouches on his bench, worried for his old man.
Carmen gently takes the microphone away from Walt. Off a
squeal of MIKE FEEDBACK, then silence:
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 25.
21 EXT. MEXICAN SHACK - DAY 21
Sun beats at the dust. We’re looking at a squat, tumbledown
hut built of adobe. Maybe we’re on the edge of that village
from the Teaser. Maybe not (as per schedule). Regardless,
this is where live the poorest of the poor.
MOTHER sits in the deep shadow of the doorway, shucking corn.
FATHER and teenaged SON hunker under the open hood of an
ancient pickup truck. If they can get this rusty piece of
crap running, it’ll be a miracle.
The nine year-old DAUGHTER yanks stray tufts of grass and
sits feeding them to a skinny GOAT tied to a post. Silence.
It’s too hot to talk, and these folks have nothing to say to
each other anyway.
Patting her goat, the daughter is the first to notice the
CLOUD of DUST coming their way from up the road. She slowly
rises to her feet, stands watching as...
... A familiar MERCEDES purrs to a stop in front of the
shack. Now the whole family turns to look. Father and
mother stare, nervous, not blinking.
Here come the scary COUSINS, climbing out of their coupe.
Taking their time. Oh god, are they gonna murder this entire
family?
No, wait... they walk past everyone. Without a word, without
a glance, they head for... a sagging CLOTHESLINE in the yard.
Off come their Canali suits. Not shy at all, these two strip
down in the middle of the yard. Shiny PISTOLS in oxblood
shoulder holsters get revealed. The Cousins hang them on
whatever’s convenient. Their fine clothes get dropped in the
dirt as this bewildered family stands watching.
Now that they’re down to silk boxer-briefs and wife-beaters
of the finest Egyptian cotton, the two Cousins take their
pick of the ragged CLOTHES which hang on the line.
The teenager is about to complain -- but his father knows
better. With a curt shake of his head, he shuts up his son
just as the boy opens his mouth.
Soon, the two Cousins are dressed just like this family --
dirt-poor and INCONSPICUOUS. The only thing that stands out
about them are their SKULL-TOED COWBOY BOOTS. Yeah, they’re
keeping those babies. Plus the guns, of course.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 26.
Leaving their suits on the ground where they dropped them,
the Cousins head back the way they came...
... Pausing when they get to the nine year-old daughter.
They stop before her and her goat. Too curious and innocent
to be scared, she just stares up at them.
In b.g., her parents fidget, seeing this -- but they don’t
dare come closer.
One Cousin glances to the other, then down at the girl. It’s
like that moment in the 1930 “Frankenstein” -- is the Monster
going to play with the fraulein, or drown her in the lake?
Neither, it turns out. Instead, he bends down and hangs
something on one of her goat’s HORNS.
It’s the fancy key to the MERCEDES. He gives it a twirl and
walks off, leaving it spinning. CLOSE ANGLE PAST this KEY,
left dangling here in f.g. as the Cousins leave it behind.
The family slowly gathers, watching the Cousins depart in
their “new” clothes. These two scary, silent men have
apparently left their expensive car in trade -- or maybe they
just don’t need it anymore. Without so much as a look back,
they walk off on foot, headed for parts unknown.
Off these strange events...
END ACT TWO
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 27.
ACT THREE
22 EXT. WHITE HOUSE - AFTERNOON 22
Skyler’s Grand Wagoneer is in the driveway. Marie’s blue VW
Beetle is beside it, parked where Walt’s car used to belong.
The Aztek motors into frame, pulling to a stop behind these
two vehicles. It sits there, idling.
23 INT. WALT’S AZTEK - AFTERNOON - CONTINUOUS 23
Walt stares at the house through his spiderwebbed windshield.
Walter, Jr. remains where he is, his backpack in his lap.
Instead of getting out, he studies his old man with concern.
Finally, feeling eyes on him, Walt turns to his son.
WALT
How’s your Aunt Marie doing?
WALTER, JR.
(a beat)
Fine. I guess.
WALT
You say hello to her for me, would
you?
Junior keeps watching his dad. Walt is subdued, yet tries to
be chipper. The effect is inadvertently sad.
WALTER, JR.
(another beat)
Why don’t you just come inside?
It’s your house.
Boy, Walt surely would like to do just that. Instead:
WALT
No, I uh... nah.
He smiles faintly. Worried for his dad, and also
disappointed in him (in that way Jim Backus disappointed
James Dean by wearing the apron in “Rebel Without A Cause”),
Walter, Jr. gathers his stuff and exits the car.
Walt gives a big, fake smile as he waves goodbye --
everything’s fine! He lingers here a moment, not sure what
to do next. It’s not like he has anywhere to go.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 28.
24 INT. WHITE HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON - CONTINUOUS 24
We peek out between the CURTAINS, out the front window at
Walt’s Aztek as it backs out of the driveway and motors off
down the street. We reveal MARIE watching Walt go (is there
a way we can shoot this bit on location, then continue with
the scene on our soundstage set?)
Marie turns to Skyler, who sits across the way on the sofa.
MARIE
He’s gone.
Skyler nods, a bit less tense now. As the front door
unlatches, Marie quickly steps away from the window, makes
like she wasn’t spying. Walter, Jr. enters, his mood dark.
MARIE
Hey, Flynn! How’s tricks?
WALTER, JR.
How’s what?
MARIE
Tricks. It’s an expression. How
are you?
Not up for small talk, the teenager turns on his mom.
WALTER, JR.
Why you gotta treat him like this?
SKYLER
(quiet, yet patient)
Well, hello to you, too.
WALTER, JR.
I’m asking you a question! W-Why
you gotta be like this?! Why can’t
you just TALK, even?!
MARIE
Flynn. Hey.
Marie points a warning finger at her nephew. Ah, fuck this!
That’s what the kid is thinking as he blows off both of them
and powers away on his crutches to his bedroom.
Skyler sighs, just sits here. Marie glances at her and
considers, then joins her on the sofa. Silence for a moment.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 29.
SLAM! There goes Junior’s bedroom DOOR, closed and locked.
Once Marie is sure she and her sister have privacy...
MARIE
Wow. Out of the mouths of babes,
huh?
(as Sky starts to stew)
Try not to hold it against him.
Poor kid’s probably dying of
curiosity. I guess it’s only
natural for him to be wondering,
you know. Wondering... what could
have possibly gone so wrong that...
SKYLER
(overlapping her)
Marie... Marie.
Marie finally throws up her hands.
MARIE
Well, I’m sorry! How am I supposed
to help you get over this if you
won’t even tell me what Walt DID?
SKYLER
I don’t remember asking you,
alright? You wanna be supportive?
Be supportive without all this
prying, for god’s sake.
MARIE
“Prying.” Oh, that’s very --
(turns on a dime)
Did he cheat on you? He cheated on
you, didn’t he?
Skyler abruptly rises and exits frame, headed for the kitchen
or somesuch. Marie remains behind, calls after her.
MARIE
He must have! Why not just say
it?! --
Off Marie, left stewing now:
25 EXT. GREAT OUTDOORS - NIGHT 25
SPARKS. Brilliant red and orange. Hundreds of them. They
rise through frame leaving crooked, whizzing trails across
the night sky. We TILT DOWN and find their source...
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 30.
... A crackling BONFIRE. We sense people sitting around it
in the darkness. We get flickering glimpses (This is a scene
that can shoot pretty much anywhere, even in the grasslands
surrounding Q Studios. Our schedule will determine).
GROUP LEADER (O.S.)
It’s that voice inside your head.
Man, it’s that sneaky, rat-bastard,
twenty-four-seven voice.
We FIND the LEADER of this rehab group. He’s the same guy we
heard leading the discussion during the previous scene at the
Onion. Perhaps we never showed his face that time around.
Perhaps we’re seeing it for the first time now.
He’s a middle-aged guy. Probably younger than he looks.
This is a dude who has clearly lived what he preaches.
GROUP LEADER
You guys know what I’m talking
about. That voice that tells you
you’re not good enough.
(makes a face)
“Not good enough?” Not good enough
for what? Not good enough to be
what, President of the United
States? Alright, so maybe you
aren’t that good.
A few dry chuckles from the men and women present. Among
them, reveal JESSE... who isn’t laughing, who isn’t engaged.
He simply stares into the fire. We view him THROUGH it.
GROUP LEADER
But now... are you good enough to
deserve your share of basic human
happiness? Are you good enough to
be okay with who and what you are?
(pokes at the fire)
I say yes.
Silence from the group... all of whom want to believe this.
All except Jesse, who snorts and gives a little shake of his
head. Just enough for our Group Leader to notice.
GROUP LEADER
Of course, it doesn’t matter what I
say. It’s your voice. You’re the
only one who hears it. Which makes
you the only one who can fight it.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 31.
Finished poking at the fire, the man turns to our hero.
GROUP LEADER
We never hear from you, Jesse.
Tell me I’m fulla shit, man, I
don’t mind. Just... whaddya say?
Let us in on it.
Thus (gently) put on the spot, Jesse glances around at the
others -- a few of whom nod supportively. Self-conscious,
Jesse shrugs and turns it around.
JESSE
So, like... what makes you the
expert?
GROUP LEADER
(friendly)
I don’t think I ever said I was
that.
JESSE
Yeah, but you’re the one sitting
here, right? Telling us thus and
so, be happy, forgive yourself,
blah-blah.
(low, yet intense)
You ever really hurt anybody? I
don’t just mean disappointed your
mom or whatever. Did you ever
really... hurt someone?
There’s a fierceness, an anger in Jesse’s eyes now. It’s
nothing we’ve ever quite seen from him. It’s the anger he
directs at himself because of Jane.
The Leader stares at Jesse through the flames. He considers
a moment. Then, simply and plainly...
GROUP LEADER
I killed my daughter.
This surprises Jesse. The others, too. The man continues.
GROUP LEADER
It was July 18th, which is my
birthday. July 18th, 1992. I was
high on cocaine and I was drunk.
Coke wasn’t an issue, because I had
bought two grams the night before
as a birthday present to myself. I
had plenty left.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 32.
(MORE)
But I was out of vodka -- and this
was Portsmouth, Virginia, where
instead of selling liquor in the
supermarkets, they have ABC stores.
Which close at five PM. And right
then it was about four forty-two.
(a beat)
So, I’m arguing with my wife --
“Go to the ABC for me, it’s my
birthday! C’mon, they’re not gonna
sell to me!” And she’s saying no,
no. So I’m pissed. And the clock
is ticking, so I jump in my truck.
(off everyone’s silence)
And she’s playing at the, my six
year-old daughter, she’s playing
down at the end of the driveway.
Dead silence, save for the crackling fire. Story over.
Finally, Jesse speaks. He’s not judgmental or condemning, he
simply wants to know:
JESSE
How do you not hate yourself?
GROUP LEADER
I did hate myself -- for years.
But it didn’t stop me drinking and
getting high. It just made me do
it that much more.
(a beat)
Self-hatred, guilt... it
accomplishes nothing. It only
stands in the way.
JESSE
Stands in the way of what?
GROUP LEADER
True change.
Off Jesse, maybe just now beginning to see the light...
26 EXT. THE BEACHCOMBER APARTMENTS - DAY 26
To establish. This is a view from the parking lot, with
Walt’s empty Aztek parked in foreground.
Seen inside or out, this place is cookie-cutter bland and
depressing. Let’s hope Walt doesn’t have to live here long.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 33.
GROUP LEADER (CONT'D)
27 INT. THE BEACHCOMBER - WALT’S STUDIO - AFTERNOON 27
CLOSE ON the TEDDY BEAR EYEBALL. It stares up at us from the
palm of a man’s hand.
Alone in his new apartment, Walt sits here on the end of his
bed, the plastic eye in hand. He’s still dressed for work,
having just returned from it. Now... unfortunately... he’s
got the whooole afternoon to himself.
He worries the eye in his fingertips, gazing down at it.
Lost in thought. Steeped in regret.
A KNOCK at the door rouses him. Walt tosses the eyeball in a
suitcase that lies open at his feet (Walt’s belongings are
arrayed about the floor, as if unpacking them might give this
new living arrangement a sense of permanence).
CLOSE PAST the EYE in f.g. as Walt goes to answer the knock.
He opens the door, revealing SKYLER. It’s a surprise visit.
Walt is stunned to see her, and very happy.
WALT
Skyler. Hey.
She nods hello, reserved. Uncomfortable, yet polite.
SKYLER
Is this a good time to talk?
WALT
Uh... sure. Come in. Please.
He ushers her inside, closing the door behind them.
WALT
Sorry the place is such a --
SKYLER
-- No, I should have called first.
WALT
You know, still unpacking. Finding
places for everything.
SKYLER
Sure.
WALT
(nods; glancing around)
But it’s comfortable. Yeah.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 34.
Her eyes can’t help glancing around the place -- but not
appraisingly. She certainly doesn’t “tour” it, as she’s not
here out of curiosity. This whole situation makes her sad.
WALT
You want something to drink?
SKYLER
No, I’m fine.
WALT
I’ve got coffee. Coffee and tap
water. Beverage-wise, all bases
covered. Coffee with a tap water
chaser, perhaps..?
He smiles, trying to be droll and relax them both. Skyler
politely plays along, managing a smile in return.
SKYLER
I’m fine. Thanks.
WALT
(reading her reserve)
Uh. Should we... sit down?
SKYLER
Yeah. Let’s sit.
Walt pulls together a couple of chairs (maybe detouring in a
very brief attempt to make the bed). They both sit.
Skyler is running this show, and her discomfort is apparent
as she tries to find the right way to begin. The silence,
meanwhile, is killing Walt. So...
WALT
Skyler, I have made some very bad,
very... short-sighted... decisions.
Chief among them was lying to you.
About what I was doing for our
family. But that’s over. Those
days are over, so...
(raps for emphasis)
... Full disclosure. Yes. Let’s
talk.
Wow. Does he really mean that? Probably not, because:
WALT
You wanna... you wanna start?
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 35.
Yes, Skyler will start. She reaches into her purse and pulls
out a folded three or four sheets of PAPERWORK which she
hands to Walt. He stares down at them, his jaw slackening.
We glimpse the top sheet. CLOSE in raking, SHALLOW-FOCUS:
“Application for Divorce.” Walt sighs. Then, abruptly --
WALT
W-Why are you doing this?! Why are
you, why are you thinking this way?
Is this to punish me?! --
SKYLER
-- I’m not punishing you, Walt.
WALT
This is punitive, is what this is!
We are happily married! I --
(thumps at his chest)
I am happily married! I love you!
I would do anything for you! Will
you not... consider..? Jesus! I
mean, you come waving papers in my
face when there is a whole other,
entire SIDE to this thing! There
is your side and then there is my
side, and you haven’t even heard my
side yet! Haven’t heard it at all!
SKYLER
You’re a drug dealer.
She says this quietly, evenly -- shocking us. Walt blinks.
WALT
Uh, no. Why would you... what?
Skyler just stares at him. Silence for long, excruciating
seconds. We realize she is searching his face for some sign,
some hint, that her suspicion is true.
Walt realizes this, too. And now, one of the world’s great
liars can’t summon the poker face he so desperately needs.
Instead... his eyes falter, then lower. Skyler wins this
stare-off -- giving her her proof. There’s no victory in it
for her. Stunned to almost a whisper, she slowly nods.
SKYLER
Yeah. Yeah. Where else could you
possibly make that kind of money?
(after another moment)
Marijuana..? That Pinkman kid..?
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 36.
His silent expression inadvertently tells her “try again.”
WALT
No..? My God, Walt. Cocaine..?
She won’t let up. Though her voice goes from soft to barely
audible, her eyes keep boring right through him. Finally...
WALT
Methamphetamine.
(off her reaction)
I manufacture, I’m not a dealer,
per se.
He mumbles this self-consciously. It ain’t helping. Walt
lowers his eyes, unable to meet his wife’s gaze any longer.
Skyler takes a slow, steadying breath. Barely holding it
together, she rises and heads for the door. Walt bolts from
his seat and follows, stopping her.
WALT
Skyler, there’s-there’s a lotta
angles to this, alright? It is
complicated. Let’s just sit back
down and talk it through.
SKYLER
I’m gonna make you a deal, Walt.
I won’t tell Hank... or your
children... or anybody else.
Nobody will ever hear it from me.
But only if you grant me this
divorce and stay out of our lives.
WALT
Skyler...
SKYLER
I mean it. You understand?
(breathing faster)
Now lemme the hell out of here
before I throw up.
She’s not exaggerating. Walt reluctantly steps aside.
Quickly, Skyler is out the door and gone.
Off Walt, left all alone way down here at rock-bottom...
END ACT THREE
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 37.
ACT FOUR
28 EXT. LUXURY REHAB - MORNING 28
The big onion building glows roast beef-red in the morning
sun. Before it, small in the distance, Jesse stands holding
his suitcase. Today is his check-out day. He’s surrounded
by STAFF and fellow PATIENTS who shake his hand. A few folks
even hug him, and he lets them.
Having made his goodbyes, Jesse walks toward us... and we
simultaneously slide over to reveal WALT in f.g., waiting
behind the wheel of his parked Aztek.
(I know there’s no road this close to the onion that would
allow us an easy spot for the Aztek. However, if we lay
planks or somesuch and carefully roll it into position in the
rock garden outside the building, that should work -- as we
neither need a drive-up nor a drive-off in this scene.)
Off Jesse headed our way... CUT TO:
29 EXT. DESERT ROAD - MORNING 29
A vista of parched hills and fluffy white clouds (hopefully).
The actual area around the onion casino may work fine for
this.
Walt’s Aztek motors through frame, tiny in the distance.
30 INT. WALT’S AZTEK - DRIVING - MORNING 30
Walt drives and Jesse rides shotgun, neither one of them
talking or even looking at each other. It’s a long, deep
silence -- though not borne of animosity.
These two guys have a lot on their minds. Walt is stewing in
his own private hell brought about by his impending divorce,
and Jesse...
... Well, Jesse is impossible to read. The word for Jesse
right now is “inscrutable.” We simply can’t tell what he’s
thinking, or how he’s feeling.
This is a new day since the end of act three, by the way.
Walt’s wardrobe should reflect it.
Jesse’s eyes gradually come to focus on Walt’s spiderwebbed
WINDSHIELD.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 38.
JESSE
(a beat)
Your windshield’s broken.
WALT
(a beat)
Yeah.
Good answer. A couple of Rain Men, these two. More silent
driving. Eventually...
WALT
Going back to your apartment?
Jesse shakes his head no. Walt needs no further elaboration.
After all, he understands the apartment is where Jane died.
After another beat, Walt broaches...
WALT
You wanna stay with me?
(then)
For a night or two -- just till you
get back on your feet.
Jesse is confused -- stay with you and your family? Off him:
31 INT. THE BEACHCOMBER - WALT’S STUDIO - MORNING 31
The door opens and Walt enters, Jesse behind him. Walt shuts
and locks the door as Jesse drops his bag and glances around.
Feeling the need, Walt gives some grudging background.
WALT
Skyler and I are taking a little
break.
(off Jesse’s nod)
A little friction in the marriage.
Strictly temporary. Just taking a
little break.
Jesse nods again. If he cares one way or the other, he’s not
showing it. Walt goes from not wanting to talk about his
situation to being mildly bugged by Jesse’s disinterest.
Walt is definitely the needy one today.
Okay, whatever. Walt changes the subject.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 39.
WALT
Your money. Saul is keeping it for
you, so as soon as you’re feeling
better...
JESSE
I’m better.
WALT
Good. That’s good. The uh, the
rehab..? It helped?
JESSE
Yeah. I’m done using.
WALT
Excellent. That’s very good,
Jesse. That’s excellent.
(gingerly)
You know... as bad as things got,
maybe... it was a wake-up call.
For both of us. And now we, we go
on with our lives and we...
(nodding)
... Back to the straight and
narrow.
Jesse, hard to read throughout, just stares at Walt. Does he
buy any of that? Quietly:
JESSE
You been following this airplane
crash?
Jesus, let’s not talk about this. Walt reluctantly nods.
JESSE
You know it was Jane’s Dad who
accidentally crashed them together?
‘Cause he was so torn up?
Walt’s voice grows intense with conviction.
WALT
Let me stop you right there, okay?
You are not responsible for that.
Not in any way, shape or form. I
am up to date on this thing --
probably far more so than you --
and there were a lot of factors at
play there.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 40.
JESSE
(not buying it)
Yeah?
WALT
Absolutely. An entire chain of
events had to occur. Fail-safes --
fail-safes and redundancies are
built into such a system. No one
person, no one cause can be...
attributed! For instance, there
was some sort of collision radar on
the jet that may not have been
working properly. That is public
record! Look it up!
(snorts; shrugs)
Something like this was bound to
happen. Air routes in this country
are routinely overcrowded, the
whole system runs on antiquated,
1960s technology -- really, I blame
the government!
One senses Walt has honed this argument over many days of
desperately selling it to himself. He’s nearly convinced.
Jesse doesn’t buy it, however. Nor does he need to.
JESSE
You either run from things or you
face them, Mr. White.
WALT
(wary)
What exactly does that mean?
JESSE
I learned it in rehab. It’s all
about accepting who you really are.
(then)
I accept who I am.
WALT
So who are you?
No anger or bitterness or self-flagellation. Jesse gives a
little shrug and answers, plain and sincere.
JESSE
I’m the bad guy.
Simple as that. Walt stares at him, troubled.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 41.
Jesse stirs, on to other business.
JESSE
(thumbs at the bathroom)
I gotta take a leak. Mind if I..?
Walt nods distractedly -- go ahead. Jesse disappears into
the bathroom, closes the door behind him.
Left alone, Walt sits here considering. That “bad guy” line
really resonates with him. But not in a good way. Try as he
might, it’s a hard one to shake off.
BZZZZZZZZZZ -- a familiar VIBRATION gets Walt’s attention.
He looks to his suitcase, lying open nearby.
After a moment, a faint BLEEP. Reluctantly, Walt reaches
down and digs underneath some clothes. He comes up with his
DRUG PHONE in its ZipLock bag. He checks the readout.
Walt’s POV of the phone -- once again, the little screen
reads “POLLOS.”
Off Walt, snapping out of it and growing determined:
32 EXT. LOS POLLOS HERMANOS - DAY 32
We establish our familiar fast food restaurant we recall from
episode 211. Walt’s Aztek is prominent in the parking lot.
33 INT. LOS POLLOS HERMANOS - DAY 33
Walt sits alone in his same window booth. A tray of food is
before him, untouched. He’s not here to eat. Instead, his
eyes linger on someone across the restaurant.
Walt’s POV -- GUS moves from table to table, checking on his
few DINERS (it’s between mealtimes and the restaurant is
quiet). The consummate owner/manager, Gus has a smile for
everyone. He’s concerned that their Los Pollos experience is
first-rate. He takes his time... but he’s headed our way.
Walt sips his soda, waits. Soon, Gus is standing over him.
Like all concerned citizens, Gus wears a REMEMBRANCE RIBBON.
GUS
Is the food to your satisfaction?
WALT
Very much.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 42.
GUS
Good to see you again.
Gus offers his hand, and they shake.
GUS
May I..?
Walt motions to the seat opposite -- by all means. Gus sits
down with him. Smooth. If anyone in the place is paying
attention... and they certainly aren’t... they’d think Gus is
spending a few moments with an associate, and nothing more.
Gus keeps his voice low, but not to the point of whispering.
After all, this is his place. He knows the Muzak and the
sizzle of the fryers will cover up anything he says.
GUS
I have an offer that I think will
interest you.
WALT
I’m actually not here to, uh...
Walt sighs, starts over. He wants to say this exactly right.
WALT
I am here because... I owe you the
courtesy, and the respect... to
tell you this personally.
(a beat)
I’m done. I’m done with, ah...
(voice lowers)
... Cooking.
Gus shows no reaction. No dismay, no anger. He simply
listens. Walt watches him, then continues.
WALT
It has nothing to do with you. I
find you extraordinarily
professional, and I appreciate the
way you do business. I’m making a
change to my life, is what this is.
I’m at something of a crossroads,
and it’s brought me to a
realization.
(off the silence)
I am not a criminal. No offense to
people who are, but...
(shaking his head)
This is not me.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 43.
Gus gives a little nod -- not happy news, but fair enough.
GUS
I’d like you to hear my offer,
notwithstanding.
WALT
It won’t change my mind, I’m sorry.
GUS
Three million dollars for three
months of your time.
Holy crap!! Holy... WHAT? Did we just hear that right?!
Walt blinks. Stares. Uhhh...
GUS
Three months, then out.
WALT
Three million.
Gus nods. Walt sits here, stunned. A beat of silence.
GUS
May I take this as a “yes?”
We’re thinking it’s leaning that way, definitely. And yet...
... And yet, Walt’s expression saddens. Darkens. He gives a
tiny little shake of his head. Soft, half to himself:
WALT
I’ve got money. I’ve got more
money than I know how to spend.
What I don’t have is my family.
I’ve got to put my life back
together. Somehow.
(looks up at Gus)
You understand..? The answer is
still “no.”
Gus sits here surprised -- as much surprise as his practiced
poker face will reveal. He’s not angry or determined,
however. He considers, then gives a barely perceptible nod.
Walt offers his hand.
WALT
Thank you.
Gus takes Walt’s hand, shakes. He rises from the booth.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 44.
GUS
Enjoy your meal.
Walt watches him go. The perfect manager, Gus immediately
returns to his work. There’s no last glance back at Walt --
it’s as if their meeting never happened. Life goes on.
Walt sits here another moment, mulling the enormous figure he
just turned down. He wonders how the hell he’s ever gonna
get back to where he wants to be. He’s torn, that’s for
sure. Torn and worried and depressed.
He rises, busses his tray as he heads for the exit. Off his
uneaten meal getting tossed in the trash with a CLUNK:
34 BLUE SKY 34
Fills frame. A deep, polarizer blue with fluffy white
clouds, it’s the kind of sky planes sometimes fall from.
In the same camera move as our Teaser, we TILT DOWN from it
to find, this time...
EXT. BORDER DESERT - DAY
We’re in a desolate stretch of nowhere. No people, no signs
of civilization. Maybe there’s only a faint dirt road.
Maybe there’s not even that.
Into this frame drives a weatherbeaten old cabover truck.
It’s loaded high with bales of straw. It stirs up a modest
trail of dust as it grinds along through hill and dale.
There looks to be no one in this truck except the Anglo
DRIVER. But looks can be deceiving.
35 INT. TRUCK BED - DRIVING - DAY 35
We peek out through a thin CRACK between bales of straw.
Through it, we glimpse overexposed desert whizzing by
outside. Three quick BUMPS jiggle us -- whump, whump, whump!
FRIENDLY GUY (O.S.)
That’s it! Did you feel it?
PULL BACK to reveal a sweet-faced young Mexican -- call him
FRIENDLY GUY -- who peers out through the crack, holding it
open with his hands. He lets it go, turns toward us.
Everything he says is in SPANISH, SUBTITLED.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 45.
FRIENDLY GUY
Texas! I’ve made this trip three
times, and every time there’s three
big bumps, and that’s how you know!
We are officially in Texas!
Reveal... Friendly Guy is talking to the TWO COUSINS, who sit
directly across from him. Both men are dressed as we last
saw them, in purloined laborer’s clothes.
Yay, celebrate! Friendly Guy holds up his knuckles, meaning
to bump fists with the Cousins. They stare at him blankly.
Ohhh-kay... Friendly Guy sheepishly lowers his fist, giving
up on that idea.
WIDE -- there are twelve to fourteen BORDER-CROSSERS packed
in this truck bed. Inside what turns out to be a fake load
of straw, there’s enough space in the middle for these folks
to fit knee-to-knee. It’s not a comfortable way to travel.
But this coyote operation is taking these poverty-level men
and women (no kids) to where they want to be -- America.
People sit quietly, enduring the heat and minding their own
business and nervously hoping to make their destination.
Friendly Guy is the only one talking.
The Cousins mostly ignore him. He’s annoying, but harmless.
FRIENDLY GUY
This time I got a job waiting for
me. I got a cousin who’s got a
body shop. Yo, that’s for me,
Homes! They call me “Banana Peel”
‘cause I paint ‘em slick. I do
pearlescent, color-shift, you name
it. I’m the best!
(low, but boasting)
I painted cars for some of the
biggest gangsters in Michoacan.
Friendly Guy smiles proudly, feeling big. But enough about
me! Glancing down at the Cousins’ BOOTS, he gives a whistle.
FRIENDLY GUY
Wow, those are beautiful boots!
Not much good for working, but...
(peers closer now)
Hey, what’s on the toes there?
Little silver...
Friendly Guy’s CLOSE POV -- four silver toecap SKULLS stare
up at us, just as cold and impassive as their owners.
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 46.
Friendly Guy does something unusual now. He shuts up. In
fact, his whole demeanor instantly changes. He goes from
excited and gregarious...
... To nervous and aloof. He finds someplace else to look
other than the Cousins. He glances down at his watch, quite
ready for this ride to be over.
What did he just recognize, seeing these boots?
One, maybe two other folks turn and glance our way, curious
at what brought on the abrupt silence. The Cousins notice.
Off these two formidable men, glancing at each other
meaningfully...
36 EXT. BORDER DESERT - DAY - CONTINUOUS 36
WIDE on the desert as the beat-up truck motors through frame,
tiny in the distance. A faint POP-POP-POP-POP-POP-POP-POP
gets our attention. The driver’s, too.
The truck brakes to a stop, dust rising high. The Driver
clambers out and hurries to check his load. We make out his
faint “Hell’s going on in there?!” It gets carried to us on
the wind, along with another round of POP-POP-POP-POP-POP.
The driver takes off running, headed back the way we came.
CLOSE on STRAW BALES -- they get kicked loose, tumbling down
off the back of the truck and revealing the two Cousins,
shiny PISTOLS in hand. They lazily drop down out of the
truck, in no particular hurry. Yeah, sure, the driver seems
to be getting away...
... Until one Cousin takes careful aim and BLAM! He nails
the running man square in the back. The guy goes down hard,
flat on his face. Moaning softly, he begins to CRAWL.
This Cousin takes his time as he walks after the crawling
driver. After all, it’s too hot to exert yourself in this
heat. Seen through shimmying HEAT HAZE, his pistol glinting
in the sun, he gradually closes on the man.
Meanwhile, the other Cousin goes the opposite way, rounding
to the side of the idling truck. Appraising one of the
vehicle’s saddlebag FUEL TANKS, he takes aim and... BLAM!
GASOLINE trickles out of the fresh hole in the bottom of the
tank. The Cousin unscrews the filler cap, letting the air
pressure equalize -- now the gas comes pissing out with a
loud, fast GLUG-GLUG-GLUG!
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 47.
The sand beneath gets thoroughly soaked. A dark and deadly
MUD PUDDLE grows.
BLAM! We jump as the first Cousin unceremoniously executes
the wounded driver. He holsters his pistol and starts back.
The second Cousin lights a cigarette as he stands waiting.
Off him, we catch an oblique glimpse inside the darkened
truck bed, where...
... The gas tank isn’t the only thing DRIPPING. Passengers
slump on their seats or lie on the floor. Everyone is dead.
The second Cousin offers the first a cigarette. They stand
here in the GLUGGING shade of the truck, getting their
bearings. They aren’t particularly proud of what they’ve
just done. They don’t feel bad about it, either. It’s just
a necessity, is all. They’ve got secrets to keep.
The first Cousin lights his cigarette, considers the MATCH
burning down between his fingers...
... Then drops it in the puddle. WHOOOOOOOMPH! Gasoline
CATCHES FIRE, boiling away at the fuel tank above.
Our two scary guys start off on foot, headed in the direction
the truck was taking them. They walk, they don’t run --
despite the flames rising behind them. A couple of cool
customers, these two.
FLAMES lick higher... higher... HIGHER... until:
KA-BOOOOOOM!! The old truck goes up like the Fourth of July.
Flaming bales of straw trace lazy, smoking parabolas through
the heavens. Up rolls an orange Nagasaki FIREBALL. Not much
in the way of evidence gets left behind.
Shimmering like a couple of ghosts through the heat haze, the
two Cousins walk away from us. Headed north into Texas, and
New Mexico beyond.
Off these two wraith-like figures, slowly receding into the
burning desert...
THE END
BREAKING BAD #301 "No Mas" WHITE 8/3/09 48.
